Welcome back.
Now that we understand that HTL components let's cover the core components and a little more detail
as we previously mentioned that core components are the more abstract or higher level calls that slides
quickly insert common components into your dashboard and later on we're going to be exploring how to
interact with these core components with our data sets.
But right now let's go ahead and do two things.
First there's a reference to all the available dash core components and it can be found at this your
L address which you can also find by searching the dash documentation.
And then once we actually covered that documentation and go over what core components are available
we're going to explore how we can actually insert them in toward dashboard.
So let's go ahead and jump to this.
Your in our browser explore what components are available and then walk through a few simple examples
in the dashboard.
I'm going to head over to that dashboard components documentation page.
Right now OK here we are at that documentation page for Dasch core components.
Something to note is that it's likely in the future more core components are added.
So you should be careful in referencing what actual version of Dasch core components you're using right
now.
This is that 0.2 2.1 which is the same version we use in our pit freeze list.
But keep in mind in the future this may be upgraded and you may see some more core components available
in which case you'll need to update Dasch core components and politely.
So right now let's go ahead and review what components are available.
So there are things like drop down which allows you to basically have a dropdown list of options like
New York City San Francisco Montreal.
There's also the ability to add and select on your dropdown.
So Adam and select multiple things like New York and San Francisco.
And there's things like sliders so we can see here we have slider's of ranges.
You can also have range sliders so different labels and ranges here you can see the different versions
of those range sliders.
We also have things like input so we can enter a value so I can say something like Hello.
And there's an input reference there's a text area checkboxes.
Basically a lot of the stuff that you've seen if your experience with something like bootstrap for example
that you have radio items buttons that you can work with so you can submit items such as text and we
can see here the input value SD and the button was clicked one time.
So as I clicked this more and more times you can see that number being changed.
And later on we're going to show you how to do that with callbacks.
There's also picker's so you can see here you can easily grab a calendar that's going to be a big part
of one of our projects later on.
Then there's also mark down which we're going to talk about in the very next lecture and there's more
advanced things like interactive tables.
So this also has to do with Dash H.T. Melk components so you can kind of check this out.
Again this is experimental at the time of the filming.
But they do have more advanced examples.
You can also do things like upload components with DCC upload in order to upload data files yourself.
So that's a really useful feature in case you're going to have other people using your dashboard.
You can upload a CSP file in an expected format and then kind of display the table or do other things.
So there's lots of examples and references linked to this in the documentation.
And again more advanced things like tabs and graphs.
So if you look down here you have this nice graph here.
Again this is all the components that are available.
All right.
So let's go ahead and go back to our text editor and experiment a little more with some basic core components.
Some of the core you saw here are more advanced.
Now we're going to be covering them later on.
So right now we're going to do some very simple components like drop downs and sliders and radio items.
Let's head over to our actual text editor now.
Already Here we are at the text editor and I've already done a few imports I've imported dash imported
core components and imported components.
I created my Dasch application and then at the very bottom once I run the script it will run the server
for me.
So the last thing to do is to edit our aptly out so we can say app thought lay out and then synthetical
to an HTL div as we've done before.
And inside this div we're going to have a list of different components.
So let's go ahead and maybe add in a dropdown a slider and some radio items.
So a lot of the strategy here is essentially just copying and pasting the components you need from that
documentation page.
We just did.
So we're going to do is start off with a label call from the H team l component and that basically allows
us to connect the label to whatever core component we're discussing.
So first off let's just call this one dropdown and then we're going to insert from core components a
drop down component.
And for this one you basically reference documentation and in this case there are options as a parameter
and the options is a list of dictionaries where the dictionary is going to have some label so we'll
say the label of this one is New York City and then the other key value pair here is the actual value.
So this is a value that's going to get passed back when we actually select it from the dropdown menu.
Later on we'll learn how to actually deal with these values through interactivity and what's known as
callbacks in-dash.
But the value we want to pass back is something simpler like NYC.
So basically the user on their end they'll say New York City in our dashboard application will see NYC
past.
So if we want to do some logic for example if user value is equal to NYC then we can do something and
have it look a little nicer on the front end with that label.
So that's what the dictionary is doing.
Label value and let's add in another one.
So it's a list of dictionaries in this format.
So I'm just going to copy and paste this dictionary actually and then insert it here.
Let's make sure the spacing is OK and let's give this another label we'll say this one is San Francisco
on the front end label.
And for our value on the back and we'll just say S.F. OK.
So that's the label dropped down.
We have dash cork opponent dropped down.
We given the options and then finally we can give a value to this actual drop down itself.
So in this case what we can do is set a default value
so that's a parameter that goes inside the dropdown.
So we'll see value.
Let's go ahead and say S.F. So that's a default value right there.
And the last thing I want to make clear right now is that these actual dash core components they're
not really going to do anything.
People can select and play around with them on the front end.
But until we learn about callbacks we're actually going to be able to interact with these particular
core components.
Right now we just want to show you how you can add core components to your dash application and then
later I'll show you how we can work with them with callbacks.
OK.
So we have this drop down.
So that's this entire component right here as well as the label for it.
So what I want to do now is let's insert a comma after this and we're going to say to him I'll insert
another label and let's right now put in a slider.
So again it's up to you what you want to call this label essentially just a string that's going to go
next to the dash core component inside your dashboard.
We'll call Dasch core components and let's choose the slider components and hear the parameters are
going to be different.
So what you do is you just reference that documentation page for the parameters Slider it's going to
take at a minimum value a max value and a step size.
So I'll say the minimum value goes from negative 10 the max value goes to 10.
We can provide a step size.
A lot of these are optional.
So if we say step size is 0.5 then Ill only go in step sizes of 0.5 and then we can also do is add marks
to this.
So if you want you can add a dictionary of marks but let's go ahead and just give it a default value
of 0.
OK so we have enough I think to play around with.
So let's go ahead and run this and see what it looks like inside her application.
So I'm going to run both Python but pi.
And let's head over to the browser.
OK so here I am at our actual dashboard I should know I'm very zoomed in right now so you can see this
clearly on your screen but on your own application will probably look much much smaller something like
you know around this size but I'm going to zoom in so we can see it clearly.
Notice here we just have dropped out of New York and San Francisco and that value that we chose is going
to be the default date chosen.
Notice how our slider.
Right here it's right in the middle which makes sense because it went from negative 10 to 10.
Now in our default value was zero.
So I can move around.
There's actually no markings right now.
So in order to add marks the slider what we need to do is add in a dictionary and you can use a dictionary
comprehension in order to do that.
So let's go back and show you how we can add that in so in order slider here we're going to say is add
one last parameter called the marks and we're going to set that equal to a dictionary.
I where I for I in range.
I for I in range.
And we're going to go from negative 10 to 10 so save this and run it again and make sure those marks
were added in OK.
Go back to our browser now.
OK now I can see those markings there.
Notice how because I didn't specify step size in that range.
I don't have markings for those negative 2.5 or those.
Essentially 0.5 steps I can still access them as you can see from the slider being in in-between two
numbers.
But I don't actually see those marks and it's up to you.
And how much detail you want to give to these marks in the slider.
And as always you're really going to be just copying and pasting or referencing that core component
documentation page to get the finer details about what parameters are available.
So hopefully this just gives you an idea of how you would go to the documentation page grab the component
and then put it into your Dasch application and then edit whatever parameters you see fit then later
on you'll use callbacks which you're going to learn about later in order to actually interact with your
plots.
OK let's add in one more label and value pair so we have a dropdown.
We have a slider.
Let's go ahead and put a comma after that slider and add in one more label say the labels going to be
some radio items so it'll say some radio items.
Comma and then that label is essentially linked to whatever that core component comes after it.
So we'll say radio items and here we give a list of options or an options parameter which is a list
of very similar dictionaries of label and value pairs.
So essentially what we have up here and in fact I'm just going to copy this and paste it here.
So we have the label New York City and the value the value that was sent back when we actually learned
how to interact with these core components.
Label is what the person sees on the front end.
And if we want we can give this a filled in value.
So we can say value is equal to some default option so say S.F. is already pre-selected and let's save
this run a dashboard again.
And now we should see some raido items right below our slider.
Okay.
So if you're following along you should see something like this.
However notice we have an issue even though it looks like our radio buttons are working and San Francisco
is pre-filled in and it looks like we can switch between them.
Summary two items is overlapping right now with our slider.
And even if you zoom out you'll still have that issue if you're following along with me.
All right so let's solve that problem of the some radio items label kind of overlapping with the slider.
Now there's many ways to actually fix this problem.
One way is to stick this entire thing into its own ASML Div. call and then edit the style dictionary
property to give it more of a border or higher margins and you could technically do that for all these
stickum into their own lives and then edit their style properties there.
And that's going to be a very common approach that we're going to see later on through some of our examples
of kind of sticking each core component into it's own div That's way.
It's easy to actually add it style.
For now though we're going to show you a very simple fix which is using the template that p tag which
stands for a paragraph and then allows you to essentially insert a line break.
So we can say to him all dopy and I'm going to wrap this entire label.
In this Piccola right here which stands for a paragraph that essentially inserts a line break.
And you could wrap as many of these as you want into the paragraph to give you a little more spacing
going to save this and let's just run this as Python basic the pie and then when we run this now we
should see that issue fixed.
So let's head over to our dashboard.
OK.
So check out our dashboard now.
It does look like some radio items is no longer overlapping with the actual numbers of the slider as
far as this.
Some radio items labeled being maybe too close to these actual numbers.
That's the kind of thing that you can it with style calls by putting this entire core component and
the label inside it's own div and then adding things like a higher border or higher margin.
So those are things better fixed by Stiles.
A quick little fix for that overlap is using that paragraph call to essentially insert the break.
So again it's up to you how much styling I want to put into these dashboards in order to make things
nicely spaced.
But the main idea you should have gotten from this lecture is you can visit the core component documentation
page see what looks interesting to you and then grab it essentially copy and paste edit the parameters
as you see fit.
And if you want to edit the styling to stick it into it's own div and edit with a style dictionary later
on we're going to see how we can take these core components and add interactivity with callbacks to
finish off the series of lectures in the next lecture.
We'll discuss a little bit about markdown and then the lecture after that we'll talk about the very
useful help function with Dash.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.